# IP-Flight-Protocol
Final year dissertation project developing an automated flight protocol for a fixed-wing UAV. Scripts include software-in-the-loop flight path planner and post-flight data processing. 

This project developed an automated ight protocol for use on a xed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle
(UAV) platform that autonomously pilots the aircraft along a pre-specied ight path, gathers data,
and ultimately determines various aerodynamic characteristics of the aircraft. This protocol aimed
to provide a rapid and cost-eective way of analysing a xed-wing UAVs aerodynamic characteristics, bypassing the need for traditional methods, which are both expensive and time consuming.
Additionally, rapid progression and increasingly cost-eective methods for developing ight platforms
both necessitate a new solution.
Testing was conducted in a virtual environment using a commercially available ight simulator.
Interfacing between the virtual ight model and the developed ght protocol was done through
ArduPilot, a software suite capable of piloting both virtual and physical autopilots, using the ight
path generated by the protocol. This Software-in-the-Loop testing method allowed for quick evolution
of the protocol and allowed for potentially dangerous errors to be removed without having to risk a
physical test.
To determine the aircraft ight characteristics, the protocol instructs the aircraft to conduct a series
of unpowered glides. Through this method the need for an accurate engine thrust prole is eliminated,
and a reasonably accurate estimation of the airframe drag during steady, level ight can be estimated.
The virtual aircraft used was a model of the Great Planes PT-60 Remote Control aircraft. Its drag
polar was determined to be CD = 0:03 + 0:326CL2 under wind-free testing conditions. The protocol
was also tested under various constant wind conditions, the drag polar for a 10 Knot head wind
was determined to be CD = 0:026 + 0:314CL2. When wind was present, the wind-run ight testing
method was relied upon to determine the drag polar. The integration of velocity into distance own
through a volume of air was determined to be the cause of the discrepancy between the two drag
polars.
